In this video, we're going to do a quick overview of some very basic Docker commands just to make sure
these are fresh in your mind.
We're going to be running all the commands you see here quite a bit and also running some variants of
them that are based on Kubernetes as opposed to Docker.
But don't worry about that part just yet.
So first command we're going to get a quick reminder on is Docker build.
We did just run this in the last video, but just as a reminder, whenever we build a new image, we
can add on that dash flag that will tag the image that is created.
If we add on the dash t, then we can easily create a new container out of that image using either the
image ID or the image tag.
So for example, if we go back over to our post service.
We can do a Docker, build a dash T and then usually we'll put in our Docker ID, which for me is Stephen
Grider Slash and then the name of our project.
So for us it'd be post and then after that we would put in a dot to specify that we want to build this
image out of the current directory that we're in.
So I would run that the build runs very quickly because I've not made any changes to it from the last
video.
And now I can create an image out or a container out of this image using either the image ID that's
right there or the tag that is right there.
Once we have built the image, we can create and start a container based on it by using Docker run and
then providing either the image ID or the tag.
So for example, I could now do.
Docker run Steven Grider posts like so.
And there we go.
There's our post service.
Next up, whenever we start up a container, we can either just use Docker run by itself, or alternatively
we can override the default command of the container by providing both that it flag right there and
then the command that we want to execute instead of the default one right there at the very end.
So for example, I could start up that post service container that we just created and start up a shell
inside there.
So essentially a terminal window inside that container rather than actually running the default command,
which is NPM start.
So we could do a Docker run, dash it.
Stephen Greider posts and I would put in S-H, which will start up a shell inside their S-H is short
for the word shell.
It is a very specific type of shell, essentially equivalent to if you're running bash right now on
your computer.
And so now, rather than running our server inside there, I've got a shell running and inside of here
I can run typical commands, all being executed inside of that container.
So if I do an LZ, I'll see all of the files that have been built inside that image or change to the
or the container.
Or I can change to my route directory and prints out all the files and folders inside of their.
And then if I want to exit, I can hit command.
I always smash commands or control C out of habit, but control or command.
Okay.
Next comment.
Docker.
PS We can use this to print out information about all the containers that we are currently running.
So for example, if we start up a container in one terminal window.
And then open up a second terminal window and do a Docker piece in there.
We'll see the ID of the running container, the image that is using the command that was used to start
it up, how long ago it was created and so on.
Once a container is running, we can also execute arbitrary commands inside of it.
So for example, we could do a Docker exec, dash it, then put in the container ID and then the command
that we want to actually run inside there.
So for example, if I wanted to start up a shell inside of my running post service right now, I could
take that container ID.
I could do a Docker exec dash it, but in that ID and then once again run S-H and that will start up
a shell inside that running container.
And then finally, one more very useful command is Docker logs.
This will print out all the logs that have been executed emitted by the primary process inside of that
container.
So for example, if I flip back over, I'm going to stop the running container.
I'll then start it back up, but I'm not going to override the default command.
So we'll do a Docker run even greater post.
And so as soon as I start this up, our primary process, which is that NPM start command is emitting
some different logs here over standard out.
That's everything we see right here.
I can get all that information printed out inside of a second terminal window.
By doing a Docker, he's getting the new container ID.
And then a docker logs and I'll provide the relevant container ID.
And that will essentially show me everything that that primary process has emitted.
Okay.
So again, just some very basic commands.
We are going to be using these commands quite a bit and again, we'll be running kind of variants of
them in the Kubernetes world in just a little bit as well, to just inspect what's going on inside of
all of our different containers.
Well, at this point, we have seen how to make use of Docker, how to build an image.
We've made an image out of just the post service.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to take that Docker file and Docker ignore, and we're
going to copy it over to all of our different other services as well.